
--------------- Objective ---------------
The usual goal of a game is for one player to checkmate the other player's king,
winning the game.

--------------- Movements ---------------
Most shogi pieces can move only to an adjacent square.
A few may move across the board, and one jumps over intervening pieces.

The lance, bishop, and rook are ranging pieces:
They can move any number of squares along a straight line limited only by
intervening pieces and the edge of the board.
If an opposing piece intervenes, it may be captured by removing it from the board
and replacing it with the moving piece.
If a friendly piece intervenes, the moving piece must stop short of that square; if
the friendly piece is adjacent, the moving piece may not move in that direction at
all.

(K) A king moves one square in any direction, orthogonal or diagonal;
(r) A rook moves any numeer of squares in an orthogonal direction;
(b) A bishop moves any number of squares in a diagonal direction. Because they
cannot move orthogonally, the players' unpromoted bishops can reach only half the
squares of the board, unless one is captured and then dropped;
(G) A gold general moves one square orthogonally, or one square diagonally forward,
giving it six possible destinations. It cannot move diagonally backwards;
(s) A silver general moves one square diagonally, or one square straight forward,
giving it five possible destinations. Because an unpromoted silver can retreat more
easily than a promoted one, it is common to leave a silver unpromoted at the far
side of the board;
(n) A Knightjumps at an angle intermediate to orthogonal and diagonal, amounting to
one square straight forward plus one square diagonally forward, in a single move.
Thus the knight has two possible forward destinations. Unlike international chess
knights, shogi knights cannot move to the sides or in a backwards direction. The
knight is the only piece that ignores intervening pieces on the way to its
destination. It is not blocked from moving if the square in front of it is
occupied, but neither can it capture a piece on that square. It is often useful to
leave a knight unpromoted at the far side of the board. A knight must promote,
however, if it reaches either of the two furthest ranks;
(L) A lance just like the rook except it cannot move backwards or to the sides. It
is often useful to leave a lance unpromoted at the far side of the board. A lance
must promote, however, if it reaches the furthest rank;
(p) moves one square straight forward. It cannot retreat. Unlike international
chess pawns, shogi pawns capture the same as they move. A pawn must promote if it
arrives at the furthest rank. (See Promotion.) In practice, however, a pawn is
usually promoted whenever possible. There are two restrictions on where a pawn may
be dropped.


All pieces but the knight move either horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.
These directions cannot be combined in a single move; one direction must be
chosen.

Every piece blocks the movement of all other non-jumping pieces through the square
it occupies.

If a piece occupies a legal destination for an opposing piece, it may be captured
by removing it from the board and replacing it with the opposing piece. The
capturing piece may not continue beyond that square on that turn. Shogi pieces
capture the same as they move.

Normally when moving a piece, a player snaps it to the board with the ends of the
fingers of the same hand. This makes a sudden sound effect, bringing the piece to
the attention of the opponent. This is also true for capturing and dropping pieces.
On a traditional shogi-ban, the pitch of the snap is deeper, delivering a subtler
effect.


--------------- PROMOTION -----------------
A player's promotion zone consists of the furthest one-third of the board – the
three ranks occupied by the opponent's pieces at setup. The zone is typically
delineated on shogi boards by two inscribed dots. When a piece is moved, if part of
the piece's path lies within the promotion zone (that is, if the piece moves into,
out of, or wholly within the zone; but not if it is dropped into the zone – see
Drops), then the player has the option to promote the piece at the end of the turn.
Promotion is indicated by turning the piece over after it moves, revealing the
character of the promoted piece.

If a pawn or lance is moved to the furthest rank, or a knight is moved to either of
the two furthest ranks, that piece must promote (otherwise, it would have no legal
move on subsequent turns). A silver general is never required to promote, and it is
often advantageous to keep a silver general unpromoted. (It is easier, for example,
to extract an unpromoted silver from behind enemy lines; whereas a promoted silver,
with only one line of retreat, can be easily blocked.)

Promoting a piece changes the way it moves. The various pieces promote as
follows:

A silver general, knight, lance, or pawn has its normal power of movement replaced
by that of a gold general.
A rook or bishop keeps its original movement and gains the power to move one square
in any direction (like a king). For a promoted bishop, this means it is able to
reach any square on the board, given enough moves.
A king or a gold general does not promote; nor can a piece that is already
promoted.
When captured, a piece loses its promoted status. Otherwise promotion is
permanent.

--------------- PROMOTED MOVEMENTS ---------------

> A promoted rook moves as a rook and as a king;
> A promoted bishop moves as a bishop and as a king;
> A promoted silver moves the same as a gold general;
> A promoted knight moves the same as a gold general;
> A promoted lance moves the same as a gold general;
> A promoted pawn moves the same as a gold general;
> Pieces not listed cannot be promoted.

--------------- DROPS ---------------
Captured pieces are retained in hand and can be brought back into play under the
capturing player's control. On any turn, instead of moving a piece on the board, a
player may select a piece in hand and place it – unpromoted side up and facing the
opposing side – on any empty square. The piece is then one of that player's active
pieces on the board and can be moved accordingly. This is called dropping the
piece, or simply, a drop. A drop counts as a complete move.

A drop cannot capture a piece, nor does dropping within the promotion zone result
in immediate promotion. Capture and/or promotion may occur normally, however, on
subsequent moves of the piece.

A pawn, knight, or lance may not be dropped on the furthest rank, since those
pieces would have no legal moves on subsequent turns. For the same reason, a knight
may not be dropped on the penultimate (player's 8th) rank.

There are two additional restrictions when dropping pawns:

Two Pawns: A pawn cannot be dropped onto a file (column) containing another
unpromoted pawn of the same player (promoted pawns do not count). A player with an
unpromoted pawn on every file is therefore unable to drop a pawn anywhere. For this
reason it is common to sacrifice a pawn in order to gain flexibility for
drops.

Drop Pawn Mate: A pawn cannot be dropped to give an immediate checkmate. (Although
other pieces may be dropped to give immediate checkmate.) A pawn may, however, be
dropped to give immediate check as long as it is not also mate. It is also
permissible to mate a king with a pawn that is already on the board.
It is common to keep captured pieces on a wooden stand (駒台 komadai) which is
traditionally placed so that its bottom left corner aligns with the bottom right
corner of the board from the perspective of each player. It is not permissible to
hide pieces from full view.

It is common for players to swap bishops, which oppose each other across the board,
early in the game. This leaves each player with a bishop in hand to be dropped
later. The ability for drops in shogi give the game tactical richness and
complexity. The fact that no piece ever goes entirely out of play accounts for the
rarity of draws.


--------------- CHECK ---------------
When a player's move threatens to capture the opposing king on the next turn, the
move is said to give check to the king and the king is said to be in check. If a
player's king is in check, that player's responding move must remove the check if
possible.[8] Ways to remove a check include moving the king away from the threat,
capturing the threatening piece, or placing another interposing piece between the
king and the threatening piece.

To announce check in Japanese, one can say ōte (王手). However, this is an influence
of international chess and is not required, even as a courtesy.[9] Announcing a
check vocally is unheard of in serious play.

--------------- End of the game ---------------
The usual way for shogi games to end is for one side to checkmate the other side's
king, after which the losing player will be given the opportunity to admit defeat.
Unlike western chess or xiangqi, checkmate is almost always the end result in shogi
since pieces never retire from play which gives the players a sufficient number of
pieces to deliver checkmate. However, there are three other possible ways for a
game to end: repetition, impasse, and an illegal move. The first two – repetition
and impasse – are particularly uncommon. Illegal moves are also uncommon in
professional games although this may not be true with amateur players (especially
beginners).

Unlike western chess, there is no tradition of offering a mutual draw by
agreement.

--------------------------
|Game End ----- Win State|
|------------------------|
(1) |checkmate ------ loss   |
(2) |resignation ---- loss   |
(3) |illegal move --- loss   |
(4) |repetition ----- draw   |
(5) |impasse -------- draw   | (usually)
--------------------------

(1)
If the king is in check and there is no possible move which could protect the king,
the move is said to checkmate (tsumi 詰み) the king. Checkmate effectively means that
the opponent wins the game as the player would have no remaining legal moves

(2)
The losing player will usually resign when the situation is thought to be hopeless
and may declare the resignation at any time during their turn. Although a player
may resign just after they are checkmated, playing up to the checkmate point rarely
occurs in practice as players normally resign as soon as a loss is deemed
inevitable – such as when a tsume (forced mate sequence) is realized by the losing
player. Similarly, if a player were to lose in an Entering King situation (see
section below) by having less than 24 points (or by any of the other Impasse rules
used by amateurs), then the player will usually resign before that point.

In traditional tournament play, a formal resignation is required – that is, a
checkmate is not a sufficient condition for winning. The resignation is indicated
by bowing and/or saying 'I lost' and/or placing the right hand over the piece
stands. Placing the hand over the piece stand is a vestige of an older practice of
gently dropping one's pieces in hand over the board in order to indicate
resignation. In western practice, a handshake may be used.

(3)
In professional and serious (tournament) amateur games, a player who makes an
illegal move loses immediately.[c] The loss stands even if play continued and the
move was discovered later in game. However, if neither the opponent nor a third
party points out the illegal move and the opponent later resigned, the resignation
stands as the result.

Illegal moves include:

> Violating the Two Pawns (nifu) restriction
> Violating the Drop Pawn Mate (uchifuzume) restriction
> Dropping or moving a piece to position where it cannot move (such as dropping a
knight to an opponent's last two ranks, etc.)
> Dropping a piece with its promoted value
> Making more than one move (that is, playing out of turn)
> Making perpetual check four times (cf. sennichite)
> Leaving one's king in check, or moving one's king into check
> Moving a piece contrary to how its movements are defined (for example, moving a
gold like a silver or moving a bishop off its legal diagonal)
> White moving first instead of moving second

In friendly amateur games, this rule is sometimes relaxed, and the player may be
able to take back the illegal move and replay a new legal move.

In particular, the Two Pawn violation is most common illegal move played by
professional players. The Two Pawn violation played by Takahiro Toyokawa (against
Kōsuke Tamura) in the 2004 NHK Cup is infamous since it was broadcast on
television. On the 109th move, Toyokawa (playing as Black) dropped a pawn to the 29
square while he already had a pawn in play on the board on the 23 square and, thus,
lost the game


(4)
If the same game position occurs four times with the same player to move and the
same pieces in hand for each player, then the game ends in a repetition draw or
sennichite (lit. "moves for a thousand days"), as long as the positions are not due
to perpetual check. Perpetual check is an illegal move (see above), which ends the
game in a loss in tournament play.

In professional shogi, a repetition draw outcome is not a final result as draws
essentially do not count. There can be only one victorious through wins. In the
case of a repetition draw, professional shogi players will have to immediately play
a subsequent game (or as many games as necessary) with sides reversed in order to
obtain a true win outcome. (That is, the player who was White becomes Black, and
vice versa.) Also, depending on the tournament, professional players play the
subsequent game in the remainder of the allowed game time.

Thus, aiming for a repetition draw may be a possible professional strategy for the
White player in order to play the second replay game as Black, which has a slight
statistical advantage and/or greater initiative. For instance, Bishop Exchange
Fourth File Rook is a passive strategy for White with the goal of a repetition draw
(as it requires two tempo losses – swinging the rook and trading the bishops) while
it is a very aggressive strategy if played by Black.

Repetition draws are rare in professional shogi occurring in about 1–2% of games
and even rarer in amateur games. In professional shogi, repetition draws usually
occur in the opening as certain positions are reached that are theoretically
disadvantaged for both sides. In amateur shogi, repetition draws tend to occur in
the middle or endgame as a result of player errors.


(5)
The game reaches an Impasse or Deadlock (jishōgi) if both kings have advanced into
their respective promotion zones – a situation known as "double entering kings" –
and neither player can hope to mate the other or to gain any further material. An
Impasse can result in either a win or a draw. If an Impasse happens, the winner is
decided as follows: each player agrees to an Impasse, then each rook or bishop,
promoted or not, scores 5 points for the owning player, and all other pieces except
kings score 1 point each. A player scoring fewer than 24 points loses. (If neither
player has fewer than 24, the game is no contest—a draw.) Jishōgi is considered an
outcome in its own right rather than no contest, but there is no practical
difference.

As an Impasse needs to be agreed on for the rule to be invoked, a player may refuse
to do so and attempt to win the game in future moves. If that happens, there is no
official rule about the verdict of the game

